# aglio-docker

Use this image to run [aglio](https://github.com/danielgtaylor/aglio), a NodeJS
command-line tool that converts text files containing [Blueprint
API](https://apiblueprint.org/) markup to HTML files.

### Why run aglio via Docker container instead of installing it "natively"?

Originally, Aglio only worked with a fairly old version of NodeJS (see the
GitHub [issue](https://github.com/danielgtaylor/aglio/issues/172) for more
info). This image was intended to package Aglio with it's dependencies so that
you were not forced to keep an old version of NodeJS in your development
environment. This issue has since been resolved in Aglio, but the docker image
is still useful. There are two features unique to this image: the ability to use
local assets in the generated docs and the ability to process a direct of
Markdown files.


## Usage

There are several ways you can use this image to run Aglio. In all cases you
will need to mount a directory from your host system to the container so that
Aglio can see the files that you are trying to process.


### Use Case #1: Running Aglio Directly

To run aglio with the current directory mounted to `/docs`:

    $ docker run -ti --rm -v $PWD:/docs humangeo/aglio <path to your file>


### Use Case #2: Running Aglio From a Script

It may be easier to setup a script in your local environment to run Aglio,
rather than typing a long Docker command every time that you want to generate
docs:

* Create a script to launch Aglio

    Create a new script in `~/bin`:

        $ mkdir -p ~/bin
        $ touch ~/bin/aglio
        $ chmod +x ~/bin/aglio

    Add the following to `~/bin/aglio`:

        #!/bin/sh -eu
        script_dir=`pwd`
        container_dir=/docs

        docker run --rm -ti -v $script_dir:$container_dir humangeo/aglio "$@"


* Add the script to your path

    If you are using Bash, may need to add the following to your configuration
    (`~/.bashrc` or `~/.bash_profile`):

        # add local script to user's path
        if [ -d $HOME/bin ]; then
          export PATH=$HOME/bin:$PATH
        fi

* Generate your docs

        $ aglio <path to your file>


### Use Case #3: Running From Apache Maven

*aglio-docker* can be integrated into an Apache Maven build using the
[docker-maven-plugin](https://github.com/rhuss/docker-maven-plugin). This plugin
provides the means to pull/run a Docker container with a specific command.

> NOTE: The *docker-maven-plugin* plugin assumes that you have Docker installed
> and running on your host.

There is a Maven project in the `example` directory that demonstrates using the
*docker-maven-plugin* to generate HTML docs with Aglio.


### Processing all files in a directory

By default aglio only allows you to process one file at a time. However, this
image contains a custom "wrapper" shell script (`aglio-wrapper.sh`) which will
allow you to simply specify input and output directories; the wrapper script
will then call aglio on all `.md` files in the input directory and write HTML
files out using the same filename (but .html extension) to the output directory.

To use this wrapper script specify
`--entrypoint=/usr/local/bin/aglio-wrapper.sh`. Example:

```
docker run -ti -v /host/input_dir:/docker_in -v /host/output_dir:/docker_out --entrypoint=/usr/local/bin/aglio-wrapper.sh humangeo/aglio -i /docker_in -o /docker_out
```

> *NOTE*: Even though you use the same `-i` and `-o` options that you would with
> the regular `aglio` command, in this case you are calling `aglio-wrapper.sh`
> which is expecting the values of those options to be **directories** and not
> files.

Additionally, you can set the `-l` option to replace external assets with local
references (the `aglio-wrapper.sh` script will copy these assets into your
output directory).

If you have a markdown formated changelog, you wrap it with Aglio navigation
elements using the `-c` option. The file must be called `CHANGELOG` and it must
have a level one header. For example:

```md
# Example CHANGELOG

<aglio stuff goes here>

## 1.0.0
...
```
